# Utrans API

API Service for [Utrans ERP system](https://github.com/Vincentalun12/utrans) for fetching Products, Customers, Vendors and Brands.

This API service intended to fetch large amount of data from database that won't optimized well with normal approach.

*You may disable API services on Utrans system manually so that the system will operate in legacy way (PHP Controller Method)*

## Deployment

In order to get started, **.NET 8.0** and **Visual Studio 2022** with basic ASP.NET packages has to be installed to run this API system.

- https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/dotnet/8.0
- https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/

Please download this project from our releases page:

- https://github.com/jupitvq/UTrans-API/releases/

After solution file has been opened, head over to **Manage NuGet Package** and install all required packages. Here are all the packages we used:

- Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.Core (7.0.2)
- Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.Design (7.0.2)
- Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.Tools (7.0.2)
- Pomelo.Entity.EntityFrameworkCore (7.0.0)
- Swashbuckle.AspNetCore (6.5.0)

Be aware that Utrans main database must be imported to MySQL so that the API running as intended.

- DB Name: `utrans`
- Hostname: `localhost`
- Port: `3306`
- Username: `root`
- Password:‎ ‎ ` ` ‎ ‎ (none)

Once everything is ready, you may deploy the solution **by running with IIS Express**. Please note that MySQL service has to be running before running the API system.
## API Reference

In this simple documentation, `Brand` is one of the endpoint. 

Available options are: `Brand`, `Customer`, `Product` & `Brand`

**We highly recommend to download and run the project by yourself to check the actual documentation generated by Swagger.**

#### Get all data from database

```http
  GET /api/Brand
```

#### Edit data by ID

```http
  GET /api/Brand/${id}
```


| Parameter | Type     | Description                       |
| :-------- | :------- | :-------------------------------- |
| `id`      | `integer` | **Required**. Id of item to fetch |


#### Post a data to database
__Please check Swagger Documentation for required JSON body format.__

```http
  POST /api/Brand
```


#### Edit data from database

```http
  PUT /api/Brand/${id}
```


| Parameter | Type     | Description                       |
| :-------- | :------- | :-------------------------------- |
| `id`      | `integer` | **Required**. Id of item to modify |

#### Edit data from database
Every data deletion is on **soft-delete state.** It'll still appear on the database but it'll mark as deleted for audit purposes.

```http
  DELETE /api/Brand/${id}
```


| Parameter | Type     | Description                       |
| :-------- | :------- | :-------------------------------- |
| `id`      | `integer` | **Required**. Id of item to delete |



## Made by QWER

- [@jupitvq](https://github.com/jupitvq) - Jupiter - [API Programmer]
- [@Hernando17](https://github.com/Hernando17) - Hernando - [API Programmer & Website Implementator]
- [@Vincentalun12](https://github.com/Vincentalun12) - Vincent [Hardcore Frontend Designer]
- Jonathan
- Evelyne

